ELYgator: Inside the electrolyzer construction site shaping the future of hydrogen in Europe
Published on July 10, 2026
3 minutes
In Maasvlakte, in the Port of Rotterdam, Air Liquide is building ELYgator, a 200 MW electrolyzer. A closer look at a construction site of sand and steel where the decarbonization of European industry is taking shape.
The scene is striking from the moment you arrive. About 40 kilometers from Rotterdam in the Netherlands, Maasvlakte juts out into the water. Here, the landscape is nothing but sand as far as the eye can see, with offshore wind turbines silhouetted against the North Sea in the distance. It is in this setting that Air Liquide is building one of the cornerstones of its energy transition strategy: the ELYgator project. This investment of over 500 million euros is bringing to life a giant capable of producing 23,000 metric tons of renewable, low-carbon hydrogen per year, preventing the emission of 300,000 metric tons of CO₂ annually.
A strategic location
On the ground, the atmosphere is that of an international hive where teams from around the world converge. Ideally located, this site takes full advantage of the massive wind power generated in the North Sea. Electricity and water come together perfectly here to be transformed into hydrogen. “We’re connecting these 200 megawatts of electrolyzers directly to a wind farm, using energy from the North Sea.” confirms Christine Yang, ELYgator Project Manager at Air Liquide.
We’re connecting these 200 megawatts of electrolyzers directly to a wind farm, using energy from the North Sea.
A world first: combining two technologies
Walking through the heart of the facilities, one can appreciate the true technological challenge of ELYgator: combining two technologies. Indeed, the project integrates two distinct processes on a single site: PEM (proton exchange membrane) technology, developed in partnership with Siemens Energy; and alkaline1 technology. This unique combination enables unprecedented operational flexibility. By instantly adapting to fluctuations in electricity supply from the North Sea’s offshore wind farms, ELYgator does more than just produce hydrogen on a large scale: it acts as a strategic partner in stabilizing the Dutch power grid.
Feature: Watch a video showcasing the project’s progress
A model for the industry of tomorrow
In May 2026, the project reached a decisive milestone with the delivery and installation of the first PEM electrolyzer modules. This concrete step brings the Group closer to its ultimate goal: industrial commissioning scheduled for late 2027. Ultimately, thanks to Air Liquide’s existing pipeline network, this renewable, low-carbon hydrogen will supply industrial customers in the region—starting with TotalEnergies’ platform to decarbonize its refineries—as well as heavy-duty mobility operators. Renaldo Van Rijswoud, Air Liquide Project Director, confirms this: “With this project we can demonstrate our reliable support of our customers to reach their climate neutral ambitions.” The winds of decarbonization have definitely begun to blow in Rotterdam.