In the factory hall, von Levetzow stops before a chart showing energy production and consumption in the different industrial sectors. A huge part of that chart, power generation, can be decarbonized via direct electrification, he explains. The real challenge has been to decarbonize hard-to-abate sectors like the chemical or steel industry, refineries, mobility, shipping and aviation. “The production of green hydrogen is how we make renewable energy available to all sectors of the economy.”
 
For the production of renewable hydrogen electrolysis stacks, Siemens Energy joined forces with Air Liquide. The joint venture partnership with a company that knows the needs of companies working with industrial gases well, produces synergy for both partners. “In order to quickly ramp up production and reach a scaling effect, we have to convince the market. And that can only be done with a strong partner like Air Liquide with their mastery of hydrogen along the whole value-chain,” says von Levetzow.
 
The global hydrogen demand reached 95 million tons of hydrogen per year in 2022. Steel production needs hydrogen as a reducing agent. Cargo vessel operators are now looking to source hydrogen for the production of methanol, and aviation and mobility will not be far behind. Today, most hydrogen is produced from coal or natural gas, resulting in the release of harmful emissions. This is why the ability to produce renewable hydrogen on a massive scale stands at the center of an energy revolution. With the Gigafactory, we are achieving this scale. But 3 gigawatts of electrolyzer capacity per year - what does that even mean? With an installed electrolysis capacity of this size, an average of 300,000 tons of renewable hydrogen can be produced per year when operated with renewable energies. Using this hydrogen as a substitute for fossil fuels could, for example, avoid the CO2 emissions of a large German city with a population of around 280,000 (Source: EDGAR - The Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research – europa.eu).