Air Liquide - Normand’Hy (FR07)
The Normand’Hy project is developed by Air Liquide France Industrie, a fully owned subsidiary of Air Liquide group dedicated to the production and distribution of gases to the industrial sector in France. Air Liquide is a world leader in gases, technologies, and services for Industry and Health. Air Liquide is present in 73 countries with approximately 67,100 employees and serves more than 3.8 million customers and patients. Oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen are essential small molecules for life, matter, and energy. Air Liquide’s revenue amounted to 29.9 billion euros in 2022 and its solutions that protect life and the environment represented more than 40% of sales.
The Air Liquide Normand’Hy project consists in building a 200 MW PEM electrolyser in order to produce renewable hydrogen for industry and heavy mobility. The project will be located in the heart of the industrial basin of Le Havre-Port Jérôme in Normandy and is expected to be in commercial operation in 2026.
Air Liquide Normand’Hy will produce renewable hydrogen, utilising renewable energy secured through several long term power purchase agreements, complying with REDII criteria, and as such qualifying the hydrogen as Renewable Fuel of Non Biological Origin (RFNBO). H2 RFNBO produced by the electrolyser will be used primarily by the refining sector. The Air Liquide Normand’Hy electrolyser will be connected to the Air Liquide H2 pipeline, enabling it to supply renewable hydrogen to the basin. The electrolyser will be operated in parallel with SMRs owned and operated by Air Liquide thus helping to manage the H2 production intermittency of the electrolyzer and to ensure stable, continuous and reliable supply to the end users. In addition, Le Havre is expected to become a major hub for renewable hydrogen production to serve the needs of H2 heavy mobility along the Seine Valley. The project will thus contribute to kick-start H2 mobility for heavy duty vehicles in the basin.
PEM electrolysers from Siemens Energy have been selected for the project. The partnership between Air Liquide and Siemens Energy will combine the operational and plant design experience of Air Liquide with the experience in design and manufacturing of electrolysers of Siemens Energy.
https://normandhy.airliquide.com/en
Contact person:  Lucie Cherruault   lucie.cherruault@airliquide.com