News
MorGen Energy 20 MW Project FID and LTSA Signed
11 March 2026
News
11 March 2026
ITM Power have announced two updates relating to MorGen Energy's project portfolio.
ITM Power is pleased to announce two updates relating to MorGen Energy's project portfolio.
20 MW project FID:
We can now confirm that the 20 MW Notice to Proceed (NtP) announced in February relates to MorGen Energy’s West Wales Hydrogen project in Milford Haven, which has reached Final Investment Decision (FID). The project is among the first supported by the UK Government’s HAR1 funding to achieve FID. ITM will deploy POSEIDON, our 20 MW core electrolysis process module.
Located at the former Milford Haven Refinery, the plant will serve industrial clusters across Milford Haven, Port Talbot, and wider Wales. Commissioning is targeted for 2028. The plant will produce approximately 2,000 tonnes of hydrogen per year.
LTSA signed:
We have signed a ten-year Long-Term Service Agreement (LTSA) with MorGen Energy for the West Wales Hydrogen project, to provide maintenance and support to the plant in operation.
Werner Lieberherr, CEO of MorGen Energy, said: “Reaching FID on West Wales Hydrogen is a defining milestone for MorGen and the UK hydrogen sector. This project demonstrates that green hydrogen projects in the UK can be delivered as bankable infrastructure investments when strong industrial demand is combined with a clear and stable policy framework. We are grateful for the strong support of the UK Government, especially the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, and our partners, and we look forward to beginning construction and delivering hydrogen to our customers from 2028.”
Dennis Schulz, CEO, stated, “The MorGen Energy West Wales project is an important milestone for green hydrogen in the UK, and we are proud that our technology will be at its core. Our partnership with MorGen Energy highlights our dedication to providing reliable, high-performance electrolysers that aid the UK’s industrial decarbonisation efforts.”
For further information, please contact:
ITM Power plc
Justin Scarborough, Head of Investor Relations +44 (0)114 551 1080
Berenberg +44 (0)20 3207 7800
Ciaran Walsh, Harry Nicholas
J.P. Morgan Cazenove +44 (0)20 7742 4000
Richard Perelman, Charles Oakes
About ITM Power plc:
ITM Power was founded in 2000 and ITM Power plc was admitted to the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange in 2004. Headquartered in Sheffield, England, ITM Power designs and manufactures electrolysers based on proton exchange membrane (PEM) technology to produce green hydrogen, the only net zero energy gas, using renewable electricity and water.