Orica reaches FID on Hunter Valley Hydrogen Hub
By Julian Atchison on July 03, 2026
50 MW project to provide electrolytic hydrogen feedstock for ammonia plant in Newcastle, Australia
Australia-based mining giant Orica has announced that it will proceed with the Hunter Valley Hydrogen Hub (HVHH), a 50 MW electrolysis project to be built adjacent to Orica’s existing Kooragang Island facility, an ammonia and ammonium nitrate production site in Newcastle, Australia. Producing 4,700 tons of hydrogen per year, HVHH will displace 7.5% of gas feedstock demands at the site, and produce 26,600 tons per year of low-carbon ammonia. Construction is scheduled to commence in 2026, with first production targeted for early 2029.
In July 2025, the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) awarded AU$432 million in hydrogen production credits to support operations, via the Australian government’s Hydrogen Headstart program. Support has also been provided by the New South Wales state government. Orica’s capital expenditure related to construction of the HVHH is expected to be in the range of AU$245 million to AU$283 million across 2026 to 2029, including government contributions.
HVHH will produce hydrogen via electrolysis using recycled water and grid-connected electricity, supported through renewable energy sourcing including Large-scale Generation Certificates (LGCs) and Renewable Electricity Guarantee of Origin (REGO) certificates. Plug Power has been selected to provide its GenEco Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) electrolysers, and EPC firm Kent will provide end-to-end engineering and procurement services.
This milestone is an important step in demonstrating industry commitment to renewable hydrogen, particularly as a pathway to decarbonise heavy industry and reduce emissions where alternatives are limited. Hydrogen is a complex, capital-intensive industry, but it represents a significant economic and decarbonisation opportunity for Australia. This decision signals that renewable hydrogen production can be deployed at scale in Australia, shifting the conversation from concept to deployment, particularly for hard‑to‑abate sectors where it can make the biggest impact.
ARENA CEO Darren Miller, in his organisation’s official press release, 1 July 2026
*This article has been updated to include the roles of Plug Power and Kent.