Hydrogen
            GreenH Electrolysis unveils its first 1 MW PEM electrolyser manufactured at Jhajjar plant
            
                    
                     
                    
                  
                  
                              
                    
                      
                                          
                                        
                  
                
                The electrolyser will supply hydrogen to India’s first hydrogen train under Indian Railways’ “Hydrogen for Heritage” initiative
GreenH Electrolysis, a joint venture between H2B2 Electrolysis Technologies, and GR Promoter Group, unveiled its first 1 MW PEM electrolyser at its manufacturing plant in Jhajjar, Haryana.
The event was graced with the presence of Vinod Agarwal, Chairman and Wholetime Director, GR Infraprojects Ltd., along with Anselmo Andrade, CEO and Founding Partner, H2B2 Electrolysis Technologies; and Romen Rawat, Chief Project Manager/Hydrogen Trainset, Indian Railways.
This 1 MW PEM electrolyser will be installed at the hydrogen production and refueling station at Jind, Haryana, and will supply hydrogen to India’s first hydrogen train under the prestigious Indian Railways’ “Hydrogen for Heritage” initiative.
The electrolyser will operate round the clock producing approximately 430 kg/day of hydrogen at a delivery pressure of 40 bar (g) and purity as per ISO 14687 suitable for Fuel Cell applications. The refueling infrastructure at Jind will also have a 3,000 kg hydrogen storage, hydrogen compressor, and two hydrogen dispensers with pre-cooler integration, allowing for quick refueling of trains.
Dhiman Roy, CEO and Director, GreenH Electrolysis Pvt. Ltd. said, “Today, we are extremely proud to announce the launch of our first 1 MW PEM electrolyser. This marks a significant milestone in our growth journey in India and underscores our commitment to the country’s Make in India initiatives and India’s energy transition journey. With the support of our parent companies, GR Promoter Group and H2B2 Electrolysis Technologies, we are well poised to play an important role in India’s green hydrogen plans as part of our efforts to answer the clarion call of our country to go green and clean."
"This milestone is only the beginning and as an organisation, each member of the GreenH family is excited to work towards laying the foundation for a sustainable tomorrow,” added Roy.
Anselmo Andrade, CEO and Founding Partner, H2B2 Electrolysis Technologies said, “Congratulations to the GreenH team on the unveiling of its first PEM Electrolyser in India. As a global leader in the hydrogen sector through water electrolysis, we are a proud partner in this significant development. We look forward to enhancing our partnership with GreenH and are confident that our technological expertise will enable GreenH to effectively meet the growing demand for renewable hydrogen in the country.”
Ashwin Agarwal, Director, GR Promoter Group said, "India’s green hydrogen segment is witnessing significant growth and is expected to play a pivotal role in its energy transition efforts. This electrolyser, developed for Indian Railways’ prestigious ‘Heritage for Hydrogen’ project, signifies an important milestone in GreenH’s journey and the progress of the sector in the country.”
The recent government policies and schemes have been a catalyst for India’s green hydrogen story, encouraging innovation and attracting investments. Green hydrogen has the potential to decarbonise hard-to-abate sectors, thus helping reduce carbon emissions
Subscribe to our newsletter & stay updated.