Largest US-built 35 MW PEM electrolyzer deployed at hydro-powered plant in Niagara Falls
The system is now producing green hydrogen at Linde’s Niagara Falls facility using hydropower.
Read Next: TJ150 missile engine completes tests with nearly 60% 3D-printed hardwareA leading company in large-scale hydrogen production has delivered a powerful electrolyzer system that will generate green hydrogen for one of the world’s largest industrial gas companies at their facility in New York.
Developed by Accelera, the zero-emissions business segment of Cummins Inc. the 35-megawatt (MW) proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzer is the largest operational system of its kind in the US.
Powered by local renewable hydroelectric energy, the system is designed to generate green hydrogen at commercial scale and will support production at Linde’s plant in Niagara Falls in New York State.
“The successful delivery of this 35 MW electrolyzer system is a significant milestone for Accelera and for the advancement of clean hydrogen technology in North America,” Des McMenamin, electrolyzers general manager at Accelera said.
A cutting-edge technology
The PEM (Proton Exchange Membrane) electrolyzer is designed to decarbonize industrial processes and drive large-scale adoption of zero-emission fuels. It’s modular, scalable and enables future expansions and integration into increasingly complex industrial workflows.
The system was manufactured at Accelera’s Minnesota facility in Fridley, in a bid to reflect the company’s commitment to domestic clean energy production. Once completed, it was shipped to Linde’s hydrogen plant where it will run entirely on renewable hydroelectric energy from the region.
More from Energy
See AllIt uses electricity, sourced from clean hydropower, to split water into hydrogen and oxygen, in an electrochemical reaction made possible by its proton exchange membrane. This allows it to operate without producing emissions.
According to the company, placing the electrolyzer at the Niagara Falls plant allows the project to take advantage of nearby hydropower and a crucial industrial location. This, in turn, results in a green hydrogen plant that is both energy-efficient and important to the region.
More than just clean energy
McMenamin emphasized the project’s broader significance. He noted that it not only contributes to local job creation but also reinforces New York’s position at the forefront of the clean energy transition. It is expected to drive both economic growth and environmental progress in the region.
“This project demonstrates our ability to deliver large-scale, reliable solutions that enable our customers to produce green hydrogen on a commercial scale,” McMenamin concluded in a press release.
With more than 600 PEM electrolyzers already deployed globally, Accelera has established a track record of reliability and performance. Previous systems include a 20 MW facility in Quebec, Canada, and a 25 MW system in Florida.
The 35 MW system, now installed in New York signals the company’s intention to push the scale of green hydrogen production even further. “Electrolyzers that leverage renewable energy sources produce green hydrogen, which is vital for accelerating the clean energy transition,” the firm disclosed.
Cummins, an Indiana-headquartered power solutions leader, is a corporation of complementary business segments. These design, manufacture, distribute and service a broad portfolio of power solutions.
The company currently employs approximately 69,900 people worldwide. It maintains an extensive distribution and support network spanning more than 190 countries and territories. In 2024, it earned USD 3.9 billion in profit on total sales of USD 34.1 billion.
Recommended Articles
Get the latest in engineering, tech, space & science - delivered daily to your inbox.
0COMMENT
Subscribe to
Today!
Access to exclusive content, expert insights and a deeper dive into engineering and tech. No ads, no limits.
Explore Now!
Based in Skopje, North Macedonia. Her work has appeared in Daily Mail, Mirror, Daily Star, Yahoo, NationalWorld, Newsweek, Press Gazette and others. She covers stories on batteries, wind energy, sustainable shipping and new discoveries. When she's not chasing the next big science story, she's traveling, exploring new cultures, or enjoying good food with even better wine.
- 1TJ150 missile engine completes tests with nearly 60% 3D-printed hardware
- 2JetZero eyes $3B for blended-wing aircraft factory built around digital twin tech
- 3World's first hybrid-electric flight above 30,000 feet sets new aviation record
- 4US unveils flight-tested supersonic interceptor to counter Group 3 drone threats
- 5Anduril's new autonomous tiltrotor takes off vertically, carries 10-missile payload